Step 1: Set Up Git Flow

Make sure you have Git installed on your system. You can download it from the official website: https://git-scm.com/downloads
Install Git Flow extension (if not already installed):
On Linux/macOS: You can often use a package manager like brew or apt to install it.
On Windows: You can download and install the extension from https://github.com/nvie/gitflow/wiki/Windows

Step 2: Initialize Git Flow

Open your terminal and navigate to your Git repository.
Initialize Git Flow by running:

 

Follow the prompts to set up the main branch names (e.g., master and develop) and other configurations.

Step 3: Start a New Feature

To begin working on a new feature, create a new feature branch based on the develop branch:

 

Replace feature-name with a descriptive name for your feature.
Make your code changes in this feature branch and commit them.

Step 4: Finish a Feature

Once your feature is ready, finish the feature branch:This merges your feature branch into the develop branch and removes the feature branch.

Step 5: Start a Release

When you're ready to prepare a release, create a new release branch based on the develop branch:

 

Replace release-version with the version number of the release.
Perform any necessary release-related tasks, such as updating version numbers, documentation, and testing.

Step 6: Finish a Release

Once the release is ready, finish the release branch:This merges the release branch into both develop and master branches, tags the release, and removes the release branch.

Step 7: Hotfixes (Optional)

If critical issues arise in the master branch, you can create a hotfix branch to address them:

 

Similar to releases, hotfix-version should be the version number you're fixing.
Make the necessary changes and finish the hotfix:

Step 8: Pushing and Pulling

Regularly push your local branches to the remote repository:
When you want to get the latest updates from the remote repository, pull changes:
Copy codegit pull origin branch-name
perlCopy codegit push origin branch-name
cssCopy codegit flow hotfix finish hotfix-version
cssCopy codegit flow hotfix start hotfix-version
arduinoCopy codegit flow release finish release-version
sqlCopy codegit flow release start release-version
cssCopy codegit flow feature finish feature-name
cssCopy codegit flow feature start feature-name
csharpCopy codegit flow init
